---
title: Classuite
date: 2017-12-06 10:00:00
author: Louise Message
---

Open source software, like Rocket.Chat, can reduce licensing fees, time and cost to develop software. Classuite used Rocket.Chat's SDKs, customized the UI and features to rapidly and affordably create their classroom chat product for teachers and students.

### Custom Rocket.Chat User Interface

Classuite created a custom theme with bold colors and more spacing. They customized the right sidebar by removing advanced features, giving teachers and students easy access to essential actions like searching for users, viewing profiles and shared resources. The result is a clean and simplified user experience, which is easy to learn but still lets students and teachers communicate and collaborate in real time.

#### **Do it yourself**: Customization using Rocket.Chat’s API

Theming for Rocket.Chat is an incomplete feature, but you can learn more [here](https://rocket.chat/docs/developer-guides/ui-and-theming/themes/). We’d love to hear from anyone working on themes in the [#skins-and-theming](https://open.rocket.chat/channel/skins-and-theming) group channel.

#### Classbot

One of Classuite’s most interesting additions is their ‘Classbot’ chatbot. Joining a new community can sometimes be challenging and Classbot makes this simple. Users receive customized interactions based on whether they signed up with a teacher or student account. Teachers are shown how to create their first class (channel). They can then invite students to their class through a unique code generated by Classbot.


Classbot explaining class creation to a user with a teacher account

Students receive a different interaction where they are encouraged to join their first class and to start collaborating with peers through private and group messaging.

Classbot welcoming a student to the platform

### #**Do it yourself**: adapt Rocket.Chat’s hubot

You can customize hubot manually or by using a docker. Learn how [here](https://rocket.chat/docs/administrator-guides/hubot/)

#### Personalized privacy features
Rocket.Chat’s customizable privacy settings enabled Classuite to create a safe, secure space for its users.

One modification made is that all classes created are set to private by default. Students can only join these classes once they have received a unique code from their teacher, as seen below:

Classbot provides teachers with a special code to send to their students

Classuite also features private and group messaging for collaborating on projects and assignments in smaller teams. This could be a boon to students who lack the confidence to express their ideas in front of their peers. As Joaquin Traverso, Classuite’s Head of Development explains:

> “We want everyone - especially the students, who are oftentimes nervous or shy about expressing their opinions and experiences - to feel comfortable discussing their ideas, knowing that only their classmates and teacher will have access to the conversations.”

#### **Do it yourself**: customize Rocket.Chat’s privacy settings

Rocket.Chat offers many options for configuring privacy settings in your own chat client. Learn how [here](link)

### Benefits of open source software for startups

Rocket.Chat’s API provided a skeleton that Classuite could quickly scale without the need to develop an app from scratch. As Joaquin says:

> “Rocket.Chat made it possible for us to reach unforeseen development speed. We knew what we wanted to achieve with our product but we didn't want to reinvent the wheel, so relying on open-source software with a superb community has proven to be one of the best decision we have made yet.”

### “A robust code base and an active developer community!”

Rocket.Chat’s active community of more than 600 contributors were on hand to provide support in real time; in one case, Joaquin solved a problem with the app in two hours with the help of the community.

### What next for Classuite and Rocket.Chat?

Classuite are creating a custom mobile app (available in January 2018) with new features such as private workspaces, push notifications and file sharing using Rocket.Chat’s server API.

Joaquin describes the native app as a “game-changer,” where students and teachers will be able to connect from their own device without the need for email.

Rocket.Chat looks forward the release of Classuite’s native app in the new year!

Check out Classuite [here](http://classuite.com). Rocket.Chat+ is available for [iOS](link) and [Android](link).
