---
title: "GSOC 2018: Data Integrity and Consistency"
categories:
  - News
date: 2018-06-5 8:00:00
author: Isabella Russell
cover: /images/posts/2017/07/gsoc-logo.png
featured: true
---

_This series of blog posts will share the [Google Summer of Code](https://rocket.chat/docs/contributing/google-summer-of-code) projects that our 2018 cohort of students are working on. <br/> Follow their progress on our [GitHub repositories](https://github.com/RocketChat) and feel free to drop by and say hello, or start collaborating on any of the projects._


## Project 1: Data Integrity and Consistency <br/> by Chuan De Sheng
**Mentors: Diego Sampaio, Rodrigo Nascimento, Sing Li**

The first installment of this blog series features [Chuan de Sheng's](https://github.com/dschuan) database schema builder that will ensure database integrity across all versions of Rocket.Chat.

#### What is this project going to address?
Different versions of Rocket.Chat have slightly different database schemas. When users try to upgrade their version of Rocket.Chat to a newer one, data migration is performed automatically. However, there are currently no checks to ensure that the old database is consistent with the new database, and its integrity can therefore become compromised over time.

#### How will this project guarantee date consistency across versions?
The project will first define a schema for Rocket.Chat's current database by finding a way to validate any entry prior to its inclusion in the database. This schema must also be dynamic, so that users are able to add or modify fields, thus ensuring that all data in the current version of Rocket.Chat is consistent, and avoids application breakage or data corruption due to an inconsistent schema. <b/> The second aim of this project is to use data relations between the field types to double-check data, especially after migration of data into a new Rocket.Chat instance.

### What does it add to Rocket.Chat and its community?

Chuan's database schema builder helps users keep track of the data they input into the system, and ensures that Rocket.Chat can pull out the correct information when it is requested, despite having architectural database changes.

### A bonus outcome

This project will structure the database and ensure it displays in an easy-to-read format for the user, so UI will improve as well as the database itself!

### Welcome to GSOC at Rocket.Chat Chuan!

Chuan is a fourth year Material Sciences undergraduate from Singapore who balances his studies with his passion for coding. He was interested in Rocket.Chat as he had worked with Meteor.JS for a long time and wanted to give something back to the community. Chuan recently worked on a forum/chat platform as a side project with friends and is looking forward to applying what he learnt from it to a meaningful project during GSOC, with the added bonus of getting experience using MongoDB and of gaining insight into how the open source contribution process works.

We look forward to working with you Chuan!

