---
title: "Rocket.Chat's GDPR Compliance"
categories:
  - News
date: 2018-05-20 10:00:00
author: Isabella Russell
cover: /images/posts/2018/05/2018-05-20-gdpr-compliance/GDPR-cover.jpg
featured: true
---

##Rocket.Chat is GDPR compliant

Dear European and Global community,

Rocket.Chat has implemented various updates and changes to our codebase in preparation for GDPR enforcement on May 25th 2018.

A summary of our overall GDPR readiness strategy for this project can be found below:

#9769

The following are some of the more recent GDPR updates that are now part of the core code base:

##Right of Access

#9767
(implemented #9906)

##Right to be forgotten/erased

#9766
(implemented #9947)

##Data portability

#9768
(implemented in #9906)

Other rights for the data subjects are either covered by features already built into our codebase, or outside the scope of the open source software project, including:

###Right to Rectification

The codebase can be configured to support user modification/correction/rectification of any data supplied (entered) by the user.

###Right to restriction of processing

This is outside the scope of the open source software project, and is up to the controller ( administrator / deployer / operator of the the server system) to enforce.

###Right to object

This is outside the scope of the open source software project, and is up to the controller ( administrator / deployer / operator of the server system) to enforce.

The above will allow our community members to build and deploy GDPR compliant systems and services. We know and understand that all of you have custom installation, configuration and deployment environments and that you are working to ensure your own deployment of Rocket.Chat is compliant with GDPR if necessary.

Meanwhile, we would welcome any advice, input, or questions you may have regarding Rocket.Chat’s GDPR readiness. Please help us by emailing your thoughts to gdpr@rocket.chat.

The Rocket.Chat Team
