---
title: "Rocket.Chat iOS 3.0 Released"
categories:
- News
date: 2018-07-12 08:00:00
author: Rocket.Chat Team
cover: /images/posts/2018/07/2018-07-12-ios_3_0_0_released/cover-ios-3.jpg
featured: true
---

Rocket.Chat is proud to announce a new release of its iOS native application, version 3.0.0 now. This update has been in the pipeline for a few months already so we are looking forward to hearing what you think!

Highlights include:

- New UI;
- New Onboarding Experience;
- Themes;
- Sorting & Grouping;
- New connection status, not intrusive;
- Manage members from a channel;
- Bug fixes;

#### A major redesign of user experience

We completely redesigned the experience users have when they open the iOS application. Now, the first thing users see is the list of chats sorted by activity (more on that later), meaning that access to all the information is easier than ever! To open a new chat, simply tap on it on the list.

(GIF showing the first screen and opening the chat)

### A new onboarding experience

(GIF SHOWING THE ONBOARDING & maybe some more info about how it will work?)

### Offline usage

Having a reliable internet connection will always give users the best experience using the app, but we know that this is not always possible and sometimes the app is needed on the airplane or in-between very unstable connections. <br/> We believe user experience should not be affected by this, so we changed the way the app handles internet connectivity. Now, when the app is waiting for a connection, users will see a small text on the title of the view indicating the current connection status; and users will still be able to navigate in the app and send messages while offline.

(GIF SHOWING THE STATUS OF THE CONNECTION)

If a user was connected and received a message just before losing their connection, they will now be able to read the entire message when they enter the room. We believe this change will provide a smoother experience for users on a daily basis.

### Server selection is more visible

(GIF/screenprint needed)

### Theming

Now users can choose between light, dark and black themes. This project was developed by Samar Sunkaria as part of a GSoC 2018 project. <br/>
This set of themes was chosen to optimize the look and feel of Rocket.Chat on iPhone and iPad, especially the black theme for the iPhone X. Samar will continue to work on more themes, more improvements on the app and a few integrations between the mobile apps and the server.

(GIF/screengrab SHOWING THE THEMES)

### User Details screen

Users can view all user details: timezone, roles, name, status and more! Users can even start a new conversation with others by pressing the "Message" button below the avatar.

(GIF SHOWING THE USER SCREEN)

#### Sorting & Grouping

With all these layout changes, we thought we had to include the option for users to sort the list by activity or alphabetically, and to group it by type. Users can also group favorites and unread chats will always come first at the top of the list. <br/> We believe that the best default experience on mobile is to remove any grouping and to instead sort by activity, but the choice is yours now!


<a style="background-color:black;color:white;text-decoration:none;padding:4px 6px;font-family:-apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, &quot;San Francisco&quot;, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Ubuntu, Roboto, Noto, &quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Arial, sans-serif;font-size:12px;font-weight:bold;line-height:1.2;display:inline-block;border-radius:3px" href="https://unsplash.com/@nativemello?utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=photographer-credit&amp;utm_content=creditBadge" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="Download free do whatever you want high-resolution photos from ian dooley"><span style="display:inline-block;padding:2px 3px"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style="height:12px;width:auto;position:relative;vertical-align:middle;top:-1px;fill:white" viewBox="0 0 32 32"><title>unsplash-logo</title><path d="M20.8 18.1c0 2.7-2.2 4.8-4.8 4.8s-4.8-2.1-4.8-4.8c0-2.7 2.2-4.8 4.8-4.8 2.7.1 4.8 2.2 4.8 4.8zm11.2-7.4v14.9c0 2.3-1.9 4.3-4.3 4.3h-23.4c-2.4 0-4.3-1.9-4.3-4.3v-15c0-2.3 1.9-4.3 4.3-4.3h3.7l.8-2.3c.4-1.1 1.7-2 2.9-2h8.6c1.2 0 2.5.9 2.9 2l.8 2.4h3.7c2.4 0 4.3 1.9 4.3 4.3zm-8.6 7.5c0-4.1-3.3-7.5-7.5-7.5-4.1 0-7.5 3.4-7.5 7.5s3.3 7.5 7.5 7.5c4.2-.1 7.5-3.4 7.5-7.5z"></path></svg></span><span style="display:inline-block;padding:2px 3px">ian dooley</span></a>
